Kubernetes Access Guide (#5061)
gravitational/teleport: docs/5.0/kubernetes-access.md

# Teleport Kubernetes Access

Teleport manages privileged access to Kubernetes clusters.

* Users can login once using [`tsh login`](cli-docs.md#tsh-login) and
  switch between multiple clusters using [`tsh kube login`](cli-docs.md#tsh-kube-login).
* Admins can use roles to implement policies like `developers must not access production`.
* Teleport captures `kubectl` events and session recordings for `kubectl exec`.

## Deploy Teleport In Kubernetes

Teleport running in Kubernetes provides SSO, auditing for all `kubectl` commands and
serves as a proxy for Kubernetes API server.

![teleport-kubernetes-inside](img/teleport-k8s-pod.svg)

=== "Community"

    Setup Teleport Helm chart repository.
    ```bash
    helm repo add teleport https://charts.releases.teleport.dev
    ```

>     Download Demo Helm Value and Update Teleport Pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Download Demo Helm Values and Install Teleport Chart.
```

    ```bash
    curl https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/master/examples/chart/teleport/quickstart/values-community.yaml --output values.yaml
    helm install teleport teleport/teleport --values=values.yaml
    ```

    Check that the Teleport Service is running.
    ```bash
    kubectl describe deployments/teleport
    ```

    !!! Tip

        If Teleport isn't starting you can tail Kubernetes logs for more info `kubectl logs --follow deployments/teleport`
        or `kubectl get pods`<br>_Example: `kubectl describe pod teleport-5f5f989b96-9khzq`_

>     Forward ports to provide UI and CLI access. Using `kubectl expose` or `minikube tunnel`
>     if using minikube.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If using minikube, forward ports to provide UI access using `minikube tunnel`.
```

## Connect Kubernetes cluster to an external Teleport Access Plane
Users can connect multiple Kubernetes clusters to an external Teleport Access Plane
this helps consolidate SSO, RBAC and kubectl Auditing.

Kubernetes can connect to the external Teleport cluster using two possible options:

1. Using **Trusted Clusters** connecting to a Teleport root cluster. This method leverages
[Trusted Clusters](trustedclusters.md) feature to connect a Teleport auth & proxy
back to a root cluster. This can be useful when customers want to isolate environments.
 _e.g. A MSP provide is managing customer infrastructure_
2. Using **Kube Agent** connecting to a root Teleport Access Plane.  This method
leverages Teleports use of tunnels and is a lightweight way to quickly setup Teleport.
All Audit log activity and access will happen on the root. This can be useful for managing
multiple environments inside the same company. _e.g. providing access to staging and production
clusters_

![teleport-outside-kubernetes](img/kubernetes-eks-gcp.svg)

=== "Using Kube Agent"

    Prepare Teleport Root<br>

>     The  Teleport Cluster should be setup following our standard config. For
>     clients to connect need an invite token is set for the `kube` service and
>     proxy_addr has `kube_listen_addr` set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The  Teleport Cluster should be setup following our standard config. Agents 
    need an invite token (of type `kube`) to connect and
    `proxy_service` needs to have `kube_listen_addr` set.
```

    ```yaml
    # Example Snippet for the teleport.yaml for Teleport root cluster
    #...
    auth_service:
    # Example Static Kube invite token. Note V1 only supports static
    # invite tokens.
      tokens:
      - kube:866c6c114724a0fa4d4d73216afd99fb1a2d6bfde8e13a19
    #...
    proxy_service:
      public_addr: proxy.example.com:3080
      kube_listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3026
    ```

    Setup Teleport Helm chart repository.

    ```bash
    helm repo add teleport https://charts.releases.teleport.dev
    ```

    | Things to set | Description |
    |-|-|
    | `proxyAddr` | The Address of the Teleport Root Service, using the proxy listening port |
    | `authToken` | A static `kube` invite token |
    | `kubeClusterName` | Kubernetes Cluster name (there is no easy way to automatically detect the name from the environment) |

    Install the Helm Chart.

>     ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```bash
    export JOIN_TOKEN=866c6c114724a0fa4d4d73216afd99fb1a2d6bfde8e13a19
    export KUBERNETES_CLUSTER_NAME=my-kube-cluster
```

    helm install teleport-kube-agent teleport/teleport-kube-agent \
      --namespace teleport \
      --create-namespace \
      --set proxyAddr=proxy.example.com:3080 \
      --set authToken=$JOIN_TOKEN \
      --set kubeClusterName=$KUBERNETES_CLUSTER_NAME
    ```

> === "Using Trusted Cluster: Teleport Enterprise Example"

Reviewer: Should this explain how to set up the root cluster, same as we do above for kube agent?

    cp ~/Downloads/license.pem license-enterprise.pem
    ```

    Store it as a Kubernetes secret:
    ```
    kubectl create secret generic license --from-file=license-enterprise.pem
    ```

    Setup Teleport Helm chart repository.
    ```bash
    helm repo add teleport https://charts.releases.teleport.dev
    ```

    Download Demo Helm Value and Install Chart
    ```bash
    curl https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/master/examples/chart/teleport-auto-trustedcluster/values.yaml --output values.yaml
    helm install teleport teleport/teleport-auto-trustedcluster --values=values.yaml
    ```

    Edit `values.yaml` defining [Trusted Cluster Configuration](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/master/examples/chart/teleport-auto-trustedcluster/values.yaml#L41-L55)

    ```bash
    helm upgrade -f values.yaml teleport teleport/teleport-auto-trustedcluster
    ```

    Check that the Teleport Service is running.
    ```bash
    kubectl describe deployments/teleport
    ```

    Teleport should now be accessible from your root cluster.

=== "Using kubeconfig on a Teleport root."

    Prior to Teleport 5.0, this was the only way to setup Teleport. This option

>     `kubernetes_service` elsewhere, with kubeconfig. Use [get-kubeconfig.sh](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/master/examples/k8s-auth/get-kubeconfig.sh) for building kubeconfigs.

Reviewer: Needs more explanation here.
Also, some info on how to build kubeconfigs for multiple clusters by hand? May be a good blog post material

    ```yaml
    # snippet from /etc/teleport.yaml:
    kubernetes_service:
      enabled: yes
      public_addr: [k8s.example.com:3027]
      listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3027
      kubeconfig_file: /secrets/kubeconfig
    ```

## Teleport Kubernetes Service

By default, the Kubernetes integration is turned off.
Enable the integration in the `/etc/teleport.yaml` config file:

```yaml
# snippet from /etc/teleport.yaml:
kubernetes_service:
    enabled: yes
    public_addr: [k8s.example.com:3027]
    listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3027
    kubeconfig_file: /secrets/kubeconfig
```

> - `public_addr` defines the publicly accessible address which Kubernetes API clients

Reviewer: This is the address for the **proxy** to connect to, not for clients

# Teleport Kubernetes Access

Teleport manages privileged access to Kubernetes clusters.

* Users can login once using [`tsh login`](cli-docs.md#tsh-login) and
  switch between multiple clusters using [`tsh kube login`](cli-docs.md#tsh-kube-login).
* Admins can use roles to implement policies like `developers must not access production`.
* Teleport captures `kubectl` events and session recordings for `kubectl exec`.

## Deploy Teleport In Kubernetes

> 

Author: I think we went too concise. Let's add one sentence that explains what is about to happen:

Teleport running in Kubernetes provides SSO, auditing and serves as a proxy for Kubernetes API server.

![teleport-kubernetes-inside](img/teleport-k8s-pod.svg)

> === "Community"

Author: Community and enterprise switch is great.

    Setup and Install Teleport Helm chart repository.
    ```bash
    helm repo add teleport https://charts.releases.teleport.dev
    helm install teleport teleport/teleport
    ```

    Download Demo Helm Value and Update Teleport Pod.
    ```bash

>     curl https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/master/examples/chart/teleport/quickstart/values-community.yaml --output values.yaml

Author: Can you please commit `community-values.yaml` to sasha/rmflags2?
Once we merge, we should update the docs to use a tag instead of reference to master.

Reviewer 2: It's added here https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/f105284509645c5d70aaaac18f88321f2717b75c/examples/chart/teleport/quickstart/values-community.yaml , but I wonder if we could use overrides.. https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/values_files/

Reviewer 3: As a good example of how to do this right, see how relatively small the `values.yaml` file is in this comment: https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/issues/5032#issue-754944390

>     helm upgrade -f values.yaml teleport teleport/teleport

Author: Why use helm install and then upgrade if you can helm install --values=values.yaml instead?

Reviewer 2: I've removed the install step, and added it after I download the values to install the chart.

    ```

>     Check that the Teleport Service is running.

Author: this does not check that service is running, this checks if the service (load balancer) has been created. I think we can use `kubectl describe deployments/teleport`

    ```bash
    kubectl get service
    # NAME       TYPE       CLUSTER-IP    EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                                                                      AGE
    # teleport   NodePort   10.20.28.76   <none>        3025:32676/TCP,3026:30207/TCP,3023:32763/TCP,3024:31710/TCP,3080:32333/TCP   89m
    ```

    !!! Tip

        If Teleport isn't starting you can tail Kubernetes logs for more info `kubectl logs --follow deployments/teleport`
        or `kubectl get pods`<br>_Example: `kubectl describe pod teleport-5f5f989b96-9khzq`_

    Forward ports to provide UI and CLI access.
    ```
    # Change teleport-699d68645c-wpqm7 to the name of the Pod

>     kubectl port-forward teleport-699d68645c-wpqm7 6379:32334

Author: Why use port forward here? The easiest way to either use a load balancer `kubectl expose` on GKE or on bare metal use node port.

    ```

    !!! Tip

        If Teleport isn't starting you can tail Kubernetes logs for more info `kubectl logs --follow deployments/teleport`
        or `kubectl get pods`<br>_Example: `kubectl describe pod teleport-5f5f989b96-9khzq`_

    Forward ports to provide UI and CLI access.
    ```
    # Change teleport-699d68645c-wpqm7 to the name of the Pod
    kubectl port-forward teleport-699d68645c-wpqm7 6379:32334
    ```

    Create a Teleport User & Setup 2FA
    ```
    # tctl is a tool to administer Teleport
    kubectl exec deployments/teleport -- tctl users add testuser root,ubuntu,k8s
    ```

Teleport is now setup within Kubernetes. This example provides a simple POC for
deploying Teleport. For Production deploys you should [Add TLS Certificates](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/tree/master/examples/chart/teleport#adding-tls-certificates), consider setting up for [High Availability](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/master/examples/chart/teleport/HIGHAVAILABILITY.md) and changing Teleports service type to an option such
as [LoadBalancer](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/master/examples/chart/teleport/values.yaml#L197)

> ## Deploy Teleport outside Kubernetes

Author: We are mixing two use cases here in one. Let's split into two chapters:

1. Connect Kuberentes cluster to externa Teleport Access Plane

Explain in one sentence why (Users can connect multiple Kubernetes clusters to the same access plane.)
Show the diagram that connects multiple K8s clusters to the access plane.

2. Host Teleport Cluster in front of Kubernetes

This is a niche use case for existing clusters of for some hybrid scenarios. Explain the need for it an have a separate flow.

Reviewer 2: I'm a little unclear on the 2nd point. `Host Teleport Cluster in front of Kubernetes`: Is this referring to running the root completely outside of Kubernetes e.g. Teleport Cloud -> Multiple Clusters?

Author: `Deploy Teleport outside Kubernetes` means that teleport is running in front of one or many K8s clusters required for some hybrid scenarios. This is different from Kubernetes agent dialing back the cluster scenario 1.

- `listen_addr` defines which network interface and port the Teleport proxy server

>   should bind to. It defaults to port 3026 on all NICs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  should bind to.
```

and more fined grained RBAC.

```yaml
# ... Snippet of teleport.yaml
# Optional labels: These can be used in combination with RBAC rules
# to limit access to applications.
# When using kubeconfig_file above, these labels apply to all kubernetes
# clusters specified in the kubeconfig.
kubernetes_service:
  enabled: yes

>   public_addr: [k8s.example.com:3027]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  public_addr: [k8s.example.com:3027]
  kube_cluster_name: "my-kube-cluster"
```
